=head1 ARTEMIS: Editing Math Expressions

B<ARTEMIS> - Editing math expressions




The math expression editing dialog is a way of setting path parameter
math expressions for many paths at once.  It works on a given path
parameter, e.g. it sets e0 or sigma^2 for many paths but does not
touch other path parameters.  This dialog is available in two
different context menus.  If you right click on a path parameter label
on the path page and selection "Edit for many paths", then the dialog
will pop up for editing that parameter.  If you right click on an
entry on the B<Feff> interpretation page and select the "Edit path
parameters" cascade, then select a path parameter, the dialog will pop
up for editing that parameter.


=head2 Operation of the dialog

The dialog is fairly simple.  At the top is a text entry box for
typing in your math expression.  Below that are various radiobuttons
for specifying how to apply the math expression to the various paths
in your project.  The options are:

=over 4

=item 1.

Add the math expression to every path in the current B<Feff> calculation.

=item 2.

Add the math expression to every path in the each B<Feff> calculation.

=item 3.

Add the math expression to every path in the each B<Feff> calculation
associated with the current data set.

=item 4.

Add the math expression to selected paths (i.e. the ones highlighted
in orange in the Data and Paths list).

=back


=head2 Tokens

You can write your math expressions using token.  Tokens are short
character strings which will be replaced by path-specific information
as the math expression is applied to each path.  The tokens are:

=over 4

=item C<%i>

The path index from the B<Feff> calculation.  This is actually
computed from the name of the C<`feffNNNN.dat'> file from the B<Feff>
calculation.  For instance, if the file is C<`feff0029.dat'>, then
C<%i> will expand to C<29>.

=item C<%I>

The path index from the B<Feff> calculation, padded to fill four
characters.  For instance, if the file is C<`feff0029.dat'>, then
C<%I> will expand to C<0029>.

=item C<%r>

The effective path length (or C<reff>) from the B<Feff> calculation
for the path.

=item C<%d>

The degeneracy of the path.

=item C<%D>

A template for the Debye function.  This always expands to the string
"debye(temp,thetad)" and may need be edited after the fact to use the
correct variable names.  This is offered because the author finds it
hard to remember the order of the arguments to the Debye function.

=item C<%E>

A template for the Einstein function.  This always expands to the string
"eins(temp,thetae)" and may need be edited after the fact to use the
correct variable names.  This is offered because the author finds it
hard to remember the order of the arguments to the Einstein function.

=back


=over 5

=item

L<Back to the main document|artemis>

=back
