=head1 ARTEMIS: Plotting Data

B<ARTEMIS> - Plotting data

Plots in B<Artemis> are made using the selected items in the Data and
Paths List, which are the ones highlighted in orange.  See L<the main
document section|artemis> for an explanation of how to selected items
for plotting.

At the top of the plot panel are three big, red buttons.  One is for
making a plot in k-space, one is for R-space, and the third is for
q-space (i.e. back-transformed k-space).

=head2 k-Weighting

Below the plot buttons are a set of radiobuttons for setting the
k-weight to use in the plots.  The k-weight chosen will be used to
weight a plot in k-space or to weight data for Fourier transforming.
The same k-weight is used for each selected item.  The button marked
"kw" needs some explanation.  When this button is chosen, the k-weight
to use in the plot will be determined from the data being plotted.  If
the arbitrary k-weight enabled for the data set,the value for the
arbitrary k-weight will be used, other wise the smallest k-weight
value enabled will be used.  There are two reason to use the "kw"
button.  One is to plot using your arbitrary weight.  The other is to
make a plot of two or more data sets using a different k-weight for
each data set.

Note that these k-weight controls are unrelated to the controls which
set the k-weight used in the fit.  K-weighting for fitting and
plotting are controlled independently.

=head2 Selecting What Gets Plotted

Below the k-weight radiobuttons are menus for choosing which part of
the complex functions C<chi(R)> or C<chi(q)> to plot.  Plots involving
multiple parts of the complex functions (e.g. real+envelope) are not
currently possible.

Below these menus are three checkbuttons used for plotting the Fourier
transform window, the background function, and the residual.  If the
window button is pressed, the appropriate window function will be
plotted in any plot.  The background and residual functions are only
plotted if one of the selected items is a fit.  The background will
only be plotted if a background corefinement was made for that fit.
If a fit is not among the selected items, the background and residual
will not be plotted.  Note that a plot with more than one selected fit
may be quite confusing if the background or residual buttons are
depressed since the background and residual will be plotted for each
fit.

The ranges over which the plot will be made in the three spaces are
controlled by the three sets of entry boxes.

=head2 Extra Plotting Features

The two additional tabs in the plotting panel contain the controls for
the following utilities:


=head3 Indicators

Indicators are vertical bars that can be placed at user-chosen
locations in k-, R-, or q-space.  These indicators will get displayed
every time a plot is made.  The idea is that indicators are a guide to
the eye, drawing attention to a place of interest as the data being
plotted changes.

Indicators selected in either k- or q-space will be plotted in both
k- and q-space, but not in R-space.  Likewise, indicators selected in
R-space will not be plotted in k- or q-space.

Several characteristics of the indicators, including the number, the
linetype, and the color, can be set in the Plot section of the
preferences dialog.

The indicators play well with each of the plotting options described
below. 

=head3 Stacking

Stacking refers to a vertical displacement the various traces.  This
is most useful for plotting the various path contributions in k-space,
but is sometimes useful in other kinds of plots as well.  Stacking
requires three parameters which are set in the stacking notecard.  The
first control is series of radio buttons for choosing whether stacking
happens in k-space, always, or never.  If the k-space option is
chosen, then q-space plots of the real or imaginary parts will also be
stacked.  (Basically, the "k-space" choice refers to any wiggly
function of wavenumber.)  The other two controls set the initial
offset value and the increment between staces.

=head3 Inverting

Inverting is a useful tool for displaying the path contributions in
C<|chi(R)|> plots.  When this is selected, the C<|chi(R)|> from any
paths included in the plot will be multiplied by -1 so that they stick
down below the zero-axis.  Hopefully this kind of plot help reduce
clutter while still helping to show which paths contribut where.  The
radiobuttons on this notecard allow you choose between never
inverting, inverting C<|chi(R)|>, or inverting both C<|chi(R)|> and
C<|chi(q)|>.  The real and imaginary parts in R- or q-space are never
inverted.  C<chi(k)> is also never inverted.  Inverting is turned off
whenever stacking is selected and would effect the current plot
(i.e. you cannot stack and invert at the same time).

=head3 Data set offsets

This feat ure is useful for multiple data set plots.  This is similar
to stacking in that the parameter denotes a vertical offset for use i
the plot.  Each trace associated with a particular data set is plotted
at the same lavel, but the data sets will be offset by the amount
specified by this control.  This provides a way of simultaneously
visualizing all parts of a multiple data set fit.  Negative values are
recommended, with a negative offset, the traces will be plotted in the
same order from top to bottom as in the plot legend.

Stacking is disabled when data set offsets are used.  Inverting is
used with data set offsets, although I think this results in confusing
plots.


=over 5

=item

L<Back to the main document|artemis>

=back
