=head1 ARTEMIS: The Fit Information Dialog

B<ARTEMIS> -  The fit information dialog


=head1 Fit information dialog

Part of the concept of a project in B<Artemis> is the ability to track
changes to your data analysis as you change your fitting model.  To
this end, B<Artemis> is able to save information about every fit that
gets made.  As you do this work, you will, no doubt, collect a large
number of past fits within your project.  B<Artemis> helps you
organize these fits by asking you to fill out a small form each time
you begin a fit.

=over 4

=item Label

This is a short text string which will be displayed in the Data and
Paths List.  The default is to make a label which indicates: (1)
whether a fit or a sum of paths is being made and (2) which fit in the
sequence of fits this is.  Of course, you can change this to any
string which helps you remember which fit this is.

=item Comment

This is a longer text string which will be written to the log file and
will also be inserted into the Comment section of the Properties
palette.  The purpose of this is to provide a concisem one-line
description of the current fit.

=item Figure of merit

This is an number (either an integer or a real) that somehow describes
the current fit.  The default is to number of the current fit in the
sequence of fits.  When writing reports on the log viewer page, the
reports will contain this number.  When plots are made from those
reports, these numbers will be used as the x-axis values.  One example
of how these might be used is in a project wherein you will fit a
sequence of data taken at different temperatures.  The figure of merit
might then be the temperature of the data.  That way, plots made from
reports will be plots as a function of temperature.

=back

There are also two radio buttons on the fit information dialog which
control whether a new slot will be created for the fit.  That is, you
can choose whether to insert a new entry in the Data and Paths List
for this fit or instead to reuse the previous one.

If you wish the fits to run without interaction with this dialog, set
the general->fit_query parameter in the preferences to false.  When
this is false, the default values will always be used for the label,
comment, and figure of merit.


=over 5

=item

L<Back to the main document|artemis>

=back
