=head1 ARTEMIS: The Log Viewer

B<ARTEMIS> - The log viewer

When a fit is anchored in the Data and Paths list, the log file viewer
is displayed in the main panel.  The purpose of this page is to
examine log files from the most recent fit or from previous fits.
These log files can be read individually or reports can be generated
based on their contents.

When this page is displayed, each fit is entered into the list box on
the left side of the page.  Double clicking the left mouse button on a
fit in the listbox will display that fit's raw log file.  Right
clicking on a fit will post a menu with choices for displaying that
fit's log file in raw, quick, or columnar form or for performing some
other tasks related to that fit.

Much more interesting than displaying the log files, though, is to
generate reports on the log files.  Near the top of the page is a
combo box for selecting among the parameters on the Guess, Def, Set
page.  Choosing one, then clicking on the "Write report" button will
find extract that parameters best-fit value and uncertainty from each
log file.  This feature allows you to track the evolution of
individual fitting parameters as you develop your fitting model.

The combo box containing the names of the fitting parameters is filled
using the contents of the Guess, Def, Set page.  Sometimes it may be
useful instead to fill the combo box with the parameter names
extracted from a log file.  This would be useful, for instance, for
examining a parameter that is was used at one point, but is no longer
on the GDS page or has been made into a skip parameter (and so is not
included in the combo box by default).  To do this, right click on a
fit and select the "Get parameter list" item.

Some modifications can be made to the reports generated by the log
viewer.  Clicking on the "Compute the average value" button tells
B<Artemis> to compute the arithmetic mean and standard deviation of
the parameter from the values extracted from the various log files.
These will be displayed in the header of the report.

Clicking on the "Fit Einstein temperature" button will tell B<Artemis>
to fit sigma^2 data to a model consisting of a single frequency
oscillator plus a constant offset.  The report header will then
contain the best fit values and uncertainties for the characteristic
temperature and constant offset.  This calculation will only happen is
the figures of merit for the selected log files are temperatures and
the best fit values for the chosen parameter are reasonable sigma^2
values.  This function makes a series of checks on the figures of
merit and best fit values to determine if they seem to be data
appropriate for this calculation.  These heuristics can be tuned by
setting parameters in the logview section of the preferences dialog.

The final item in the context menu that is displayed when right
clicking on an item in the log files list is an option to restore that
fitting model.  Among the information that is saved every time a fit
is made is a complete description of the fitting model, including
which data file is being fit, the complete list of B<Feff> path used,
and all fitting, data, and path parameters.  This feature allow you to
revert B<Artemis> to the state it was in when a past fit was made.
When you do this reversion, B<Artemis> will clear out the contents of
the Data and Paths List and then recreate the project in the form of
the selected fitting model.  This is more that just a change of
parameter values.  B<Artemis> keeps track of all data and B<Feff>
paths used throughout the course of the project and can restore even
fits that are significantly different from the current fit.


=over 5

=item

L<Back to the main document|artemis>

=back

