=head1 ARTEMIS: Importing ATHENA Project Data

B<ARTEMIS> - Importing B<ATHENA> Project Data

B<Artemis> has an interface for importing data directly from an
B<Athena> project file.  To use this dialog, just import an B<Athena>
project file in the same manner you might import a column data file.
B<Artemis> will recognize that it is a project file from B<Athena> and
show this dialog.

Each group from the B<Athena> project file is shown in the list on the
left.  Left-click on a group to select it.  The selected group is
plotted as indicated by the radiobuttons to the right of the groups
list.  Its header lines are displayed in the box above the plotting
buttons.  If this is the data group that you wish to analyze in
B<Artemis>, click on the button labeled "Import this group".  The
B<Athena> dialog will close, the data will be imported and its data
page will be shown.

There is some choice as to how the fitting and Fourier transform
parameters will be set when reading data from an B<Athena> project
file.  The default is to set these parameters for the new data group
to the values speciried in the B<Athena> project file.  The forward
Fourier transform parameters from B<Athena> will be used as the
initial values of forward transform parameters in B<Artemis>.  The
backward transform parameters from B<Athena> will be used as the
fitting range in B<Artemis>.  Finally the label from the groups list
in B<Athena> will be used as the label in the Data and Paths List in
B<Artemis>.

Alternately, you can choose to use the "default" values.  This is
context dependent.  For a new data, the defaults indicated by the
Artemis preferences will be used.  When replacing data, the values
from the data being replaced will be maintained.

In earlier versions of B<Artemis> it was necessary to have exported
chi(k) data as a column data file from B<Athena> in order to use them
in B<Artemis>.  This can still be done but is no longer necessary.



=over 5

=item

L<Back to the main document|artemis>

=back

